---
layout: post
category: blog
title: "Do I need a Mac to be a Developer?"
img: "/images/windows.jpg"
excerpt: "If you are just starting out as a developer, you may have noticed that the majority of people have macbooks. What gives?"
date: 2014-10-28
---

If you are just starting out as a developer, you may have noticed when meeting other people in the development community that the majority of people have macbooks. For me, when I went to HackNashville 5, the largest hackathon in the southeast, among the hundreds of computers I saw, there were only a handful of people coding away with non-mac machines. I wondered the exact same question for several months as I saw this phenomenon at each convention and meetup, especially since I loved my 17 inch HP Windows 8 laptop.

Talking to macbook aficionados did not give very helpful answers. “Macbooks are just better (in every way),” many of them would say. Even if that was true, such vague answers clearly did not justify spending thousands of dollars to upgrade my tech gear. Surely, developers did not purchase macbooks because having one was “in,” and I knew there must be a reason why very few Nashville Software School students go through the program without switching away from Windows.

In fact, the short answer is no: you do not need a macbook to be a developer. You can develop on a Windows interface. With that being said, there are some strong reasons as to why the community has very few Windows users and a majority of Apple machines. It really all boils down to what type of applications and software you are interested in creating, and how persistent you are with troubleshooting installation issues. If you want to be a serious Ruby or Python programmer or you are running programs that use those languages as dependencies, then it is difficult to develop on Windows. In my experience, local servers do not load or the program would crash, or often, the application tool would disappear and I would have to reinstall it again. Sometimes, uninstalling would leave remnants that made it difficult to reinstall applications, so I would end up spending as much or more time debugging my tools rather than actually coding.

However, macbooks have a lot of these tools already built in, so when you are adding more development tools in your arsenal, the installation is much cleaner. (I’m not saying installations on a macbook are completely bug-free, just less error-prone than Windows counterparts :) Moreover, many custom builds and tools developers like to share with each other are often built on macbooks, so they may do funny, unpredictable things on a Windows device. You may also have a difficult time finding help with your predicament since being in the minority makes it difficult to find other Windows users to help you.

To be honest, I did not survive. I ended up receiving a macbook as a gift that I accepted with joy because fixing my tools in Windows became an almost every day occurrence. But what’s a girl to do if you don’t have a generous relative or a few thousand dollars to spend? Linux. Linux can be a very effective alternative to Mac because it also has the right structure built in and the Linux community is extremely welcoming. If you are wary of wiping your Windows computer, you can try out the Linux interface by creating a bootable usb drive or even creating a dual-boot computer. Many Nashville Software School students end up jumping right in and installing the latest Linux version as their OS of choice from Windows. Who can argue with a price tag that is free? That being said, there is less handholding on this route, so installing and using Linux tends to be for more technically savvy or technically adventurous people. It’s definitely a good idea to have a solid backup of your files before wiping your computer clean. But, it is liberating to know that any computer with the right hardware specs can become your next development device at a fraction of the cost of an Apple machine. In my community, there are more Linux users than Windows users, so when I decide to turn my HP laptop into a Linux device, I will probably have a Linux friend or two by my side to help me out. Don’t be afraid of reaching to your own local Linux community since they are always willing to help prospects and recent converts.

So in summary, you do not need a macbook, but if find that you are in a position to acquire one, seriously think upon such an offer. If you are a Windows user not interested in developing for a Windows environment, consider switching or dual-booting with Linux. In the meantime, there are many online development environments that you can code on such as Cloud9 that gives you a workspace free from installation hassles. And if you are a Windows user that has managed to create a development workspace that works properly that you love, then I say more power to you!
